README.md, before:

# Kirby Responsive Images

A simple drop-in implementation of [responsive images](https://responsiveimages.org/) for Kirby CMS. Automatically generates thumbnails for low-resolution devices.

## Installation

[Download the latest release](https://github.com/jancbeck/kirby-responsive-images/releases/) and unpack to your kirby `/site/plugins` directory.

## Usage

There nothing you need to change in order to have responsive image support. Just include images as you would do normally:

`(image:workflow@3x.jpg link:workflow@3x.jpg width:1244)`

Make sure your `/thumbs` directory is present and writable and ImageMagick is available.

Although the plugin works without configuration, these options are available and can be added to your `/site/config/config.php`:

### Sizes

To control the sizes attribute you can use [media queries](https://ericportis.com/posts/2014/srcset-sizes/).

```
<?php
c::set('responsiveimages.sizes', array( 
    array(
        'size_value' => '10em',
        'mq_value'   => '60em',
        'mq_name'    => 'min-width'
    ),
    array(
        'size_value' => '$img_width',
        'mq_value'   => '30em',
        'mq_name'    => 'min-width'
    ),
    'alignleft' => array(
        'size_value' => 'calc(50vw - 30px)'
    ),
));
```

1. `$img_width` is a placeholder that will be replaced by the images actual pixel width.
2. The array key will be matched against the `classes` attribute of the image. In the example above `'size_value' => 'calc(50vw - 30px)'` will only be added if the image has the `alignleft` attribute.

### Sources

By default, the plugin will generate thumbnails that are 480, 768 and 1200 pixels wide. You can overwrite these settings like these: 

```
<?php
c::set('responsiveimages.sources', array( 
    'small'  => array('width' => 444),
    'medium' => array('width' => 666),
    'large'  => array('width' => 999, 'grayscale' => true) // good for debugging
));
```

1. The key names are optional and have no technical implications.
2. Each array item takes the same arguments as Kirbys [thumb()](http://getkirby.com/docs/cheatsheet/helpers/thumb) function (`quality`, `blur`, `upscale` etc..).

## Support

Please [open an issue](https://github.com/jancbeck/kirby-responsive-images/issues/new) for support.

## Contributing

Please contribute using [Github Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/). Create a branch, add commits, and [open a pull request](https://github.com/jancbeck/kirby-responsive-images/compare/).
See also the [original issue](https://github.com/getkirby/kirby/issues/73#issuecomment-149279023). 

## License

The code is available under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

lets users link to source sizes

README.md, after:

# Kirby Responsive Images

A simple drop-in implementation of [responsive images](https://responsiveimages.org/) for Kirby CMS. Automatically generates thumbnails for low-resolution devices.

## Installation

[Download the latest release](https://github.com/jancbeck/kirby-responsive-images/releases/) and unpack to your kirby `/site/plugins` directory.

## Usage

There nothing you need to change in order to have responsive image support. Just include images as you would do normally:

`(image:workflow@3x.jpg link:workflow@3x.jpg width:1244)`

Make sure your `/thumbs` directory is present and writable and ImageMagick is available.

Although the plugin works without configuration, these options are available and can be added to your `/site/config/config.php`:

It is also possible to link the image to one of the generated sizes using the keyword set via the `responsiveimages.sources` config. The following example will link to the smallest possible image size:

`(image:workflow@3x.jpg link:small width:1244)`

### Sizes

To control the sizes attribute you can use [media queries](https://ericportis.com/posts/2014/srcset-sizes/).

```
<?php
c::set('responsiveimages.sizes', array( 
    array(
        'size_value' => '10em',
        'mq_value'   => '60em',
        'mq_name'    => 'min-width'
    ),
    array(
        'size_value' => '$img_width',
        'mq_value'   => '30em',
        'mq_name'    => 'min-width'
    ),
    'alignleft' => array(
        'size_value' => 'calc(50vw - 30px)'
    ),
));
```

1. `$img_width` is a placeholder that will be replaced by the images actual pixel width.
2. The array key will be matched against the `classes` attribute of the image. In the example above `'size_value' => 'calc(50vw - 30px)'` will only be added if the image has the `alignleft` attribute.

### Sources

By default, the plugin will generate thumbnails that are 480, 768 and 1200 pixels wide. You can overwrite these settings like these: 

```
<?php
c::set('responsiveimages.sources', array( 
    'small'  => array('width' => 444),
    'medium' => array('width' => 666),
    'large'  => array('width' => 999, 'grayscale' => true) // good for debugging
));
```

1. The key names may be used to link the image (see *Usage* section).
2. Each array item takes the same arguments as Kirbys [thumb()](http://getkirby.com/docs/cheatsheet/helpers/thumb) function (`quality`, `blur`, `upscale` etc..).

## Support

Please [open an issue](https://github.com/jancbeck/kirby-responsive-images/issues/new) for support.

## Contributing

Please contribute using [Github Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/). Create a branch, add commits, and [open a pull request](https://github.com/jancbeck/kirby-responsive-images/compare/).
See also the [original issue](https://github.com/getkirby/kirby/issues/73#issuecomment-149279023). 

## License

The code is available under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
